# ENGI 301 Project 02 - Printed Circuit Board
## Project Name: Pokey Clicker
### Author: Oscar D. Soto


# Overview

The purpose of this project was to take the prototyped design from Project 01 (located in the ENGI 301 Directory) and convert it into an open-source printed circuit board (PCB) design that can be accessed by the development community. "Pokey Clicker," is a simple, beginner-level project utilzing the PocketBeagle development board. In broad, the project utilizes an LCD screen and tactile push-buttons as the main visual and tactile user interface platforms, respectively. Button clicks are used to move icons on the LCD screen; this functionality is made possible by the code developed for "Pokey Clicker," and can be accessed in the Project 01 directory. While the current iteration of the project only allows for one player, a second button was added to the PCB diagrams to make room for future implementations (i.e., the two-player mode). The PCB files were constructed using "Eagle," an electronic design automation (EDA) software that allows for PCB design.   

# Printed Circuit Board 

This repository contains several Eagle files that can be used to produce a PCB for Pokey Clicker en masse when utilizing a manufacturer such as MacroFab. In the Eagle folder located Project_02 Directory, there are three subfolders: (1) Layout; (2) Library; and (3) Schematics. The Layout subfolder contains the board or ".brd" file, which displays the mechanical connections and electrical layout associated with the design. The Library subfolder contains the library associated with this project. The library is composed of symbols (the logical representation of device components), footprints (the physical representation of device components), and devices (the linking of symbols and footprints). Finally, the Schematics subfolder contains the schematics associated with the PCB . The schematics explicity display the electrical connections between the components used in the project and the PocketBeagle. A printable version of the schematics for this project can be seen directly in the main branch of the Project_02 directory. Together, the Layout, Schematics, and Library form the foundational Eagle files for the PCB. 

# Manufacturing Files

This repository also contains several files that can be implemented for manufacturing. Gerber files, located in the "mfg" subfolder give a lot of information to PCB manufacturers and developers. In general, these files describe the copper layers, tracing, routing, solder masking, drill data, etc, associated with the board. These files can be viewed either through use of a gerber viewer (there are several online applications for this) as well as a downloadable gerber viewer application like [gerbv](https://sourceforge.net/projects/gerbv/). Pictures of the gerber files associated with the top and bottom layers of the Pokey Clicker PCB Design can be found within this directory as well under the "docs" subfolder. The pictures located in this subfolder specifically show the copper pours, silkscreen text, solder masking, and solder pasting associated with the top and bottom layers of the PCB. It should be worth noting that while a 4-layer design rule was followed while making these PCB files, only two layers are utilized in this project. 
